hi I'm Birdman Mel and today we're going
to talk about how to bring another kind
of winged visitor to your yard
butterflies there's nothing more
relaxing than sitting in a chair or a
swing on your patio deck or porch and
watching butterflies make that graceful
trip around your yard even in today's
hectic times all seems at peace and as a
Lord intended as a butterfly pauses to
sip some nectar or relax on a warm rock
there are several things you can do to
attract butterflies to your yard without
a doubt the number one thing you can do
is quit or lessen your use of chemical
pesticides fertilizers and herbicides I
did this several years ago and we've
seen an immediate huge jump in the
number of butterflies visiting our yard
using products like Bradfield organics
all-natural line of yard care products
will greatly increase the number of
butterflies in your yard plus you'll
feel much better about the time your
pets and your children spend in the yard
one thing people often forget is it's
important to provide host plants for
butterflies not just nectar sources by
providing host plants you can watch the
changing of a caterpillar into an adult
butterfly the milkweed family our host
plants for monarch butterflies along
with common plants like parsley dill and
cabbage
besides host plants of course you need
nectar plants that bloom from the start
of the season to late summer and fall
you'll get many more butterflies if you
use both nectar and host plants that are
native to your area remember to provide
butterflies a place to warm in the Sun a
flat light colored rock placed in a sand
covered spot with wind protection
readily attracts butterflies
especially when salts are mixed into the
sand I put black plastic under the sand
to keep salts from leaching out and it
also helps keep the sand moist much
longer put out a slice of watermelon our
other overly ripe fruit and you'll be
amazed at all the butterflies that stop
by for that light lunch or fruit plate
many people ask me about butterfly
houses frankly to my knowledge there's
been six studies done on them and all
they've done is Vera
find that spiders will use them
butterflies will use and benefit from a
butterfly feeder while there are several
feeders on the market the information I
get from butterfly producers is that
these types are the ones that work the
blue ball helps attract the Sun and
holds it and provides a warm spot for
butterflies to recharge when the pad is
filled with nectar it mimics a pad like
blossom that butterflies prefer the same
is true on these other butterflies where
the wick barely sticks out and again
looks like a pad plant don't stick them
out like they show on the Box a
butterfly I'll never use them also
remember to put a slice of banana on the
spikes of the feeder it'll attract fruit
flies which hummingbirds and butterflies
feed on for protein and minerals one key
in attracting butterflies is knowing
which butterflies are in your area and
what the best plants are to attract them
a couple of great books for this
information are the Stokes butterfly
book the birdwatchers digest enjoying
butterfly is more and my favorite for
the family the family butterfly book
from story publishing Richard students
Audubon butterfly DVD is essential for
beginners and gardeners you'll get the
best results attracting butterflies to
your yard when you combine several of
the tips we discussed
don't forget cut back on chemicals
provide native host and nectar plant
sources as well as supplemental food
sources and provide a place for
butterflies to warm do these things and
you'll soon enjoy watching butterflies
fluttering by it's a relaxing view enjoy
the show
you